honey they're gonna have people let's
bow again this is gonna be part two of
the gun conversation you didn't watch
that first video go back and watch it I
know it's boring but you need that
information to understand what we're
going to talk about from this one and
that is gun control and why a lot of gun
control has been an abject failure the
main reason is that it was written by
people that don't know anything about
firearms so we're going to talk about
gun control that has been tried gun
control that is recommended and then
we'll talk about some that might
actually work because a lot of the stuff
that is like key notes like there these
are the things they really want it's not
gonna work and it's not gonna work and
we can demonstrate why but we're also
going to come up with some solutions
that might okay got my toe ar-15 again
if you're not gonna go back and watch
that first video as is highly
recommended if this is a toy but it
works exactly like the ar-15 it's very
functional functional representation
okay so what are the big gun control
ideas first one is to ban assault
weapons okay tell me what one is and
that's not a smart answer not being a
smart aleck when I say that the reason
the first assault weapons ban was an
utter failure is because there's nothing
called an assault weapon it's a made-up
term and it's not a semantic argument
which is that's how it comes across and
internet debates when I see people
talking about it they think that it
doesn't matter but it does now as we
learned in the last one this is a
semi-automatic rifle this the receiver
is what matters the assault weapons ban
didn't talk about this really the
assault weapons ban set out criteria and
the reason they had to was because this
whole weapons ban would be kind of like
if Congress passed a law banning zoomy
cars in the automotive industry was
what is that because there's no word
assault weapon is not in the firearms
vocabulary okay so when they set up that
criteria and I'm gonna give you actual
actual criteria okay that they used to
classify something as an assault weapon
that has a collapsible stock okay that
was one reason now the reason they have
them this cos soldiers are different
heights therefore the the link that
needs to be from the body is a
difference you can get a good cheek weld
that's one doesn't have anything to do
with lethality of the weapon nothing
that have anything to do with how it
works nothing you can see if it had a
pistol grip was one so if it was like
this this part was the exact same the
receiver was the exact same same caliber
same rate of fire everything but you
held it like this instead of like this
it wasn't an assault weapon again
doesn't make sense a bayonet lug and you
used to put a knife on the end of you
guard because you know there's a lot of
criminals walking around stabbing folk
when they're holding a rifle with stuff
like that nothing that actually matter
right that's why it was a failure that
is why it was a failure okay so now that
we understand how a lack of knowledge
can truly damage gun control let's talk
about the current theories the ones that
people want ban high-capacity magazines
okay thirty rounds first off 30 round
magazine that looks like this that's
standard that's not actually
high-capacity but let's say that it is
okay the idea is to cut it down make it
only ten rounds because then the idea is
that in a mass shooting when the bad guy
goes in bang bang bang bang he can only
get off ten shots before he has to
change magazines and then the good guys
can rush him while he's changing
magazines okay when I hit this button
I want you to start counting stop
counting when I pull the trigger okay
that's it that's how long it takes to
change magazine you can't rush somebody
in that time when the guy who's changing
magazines that's a good time to get
further away not closer to him that is
horrible advice that's gonna get some
kids killed okay that is not the time to
do it and if you know a lot of guys
actually have they've taped them so they
just switch them it's even faster not
not a good idea
more importantly the magazine it's a box
it's a metal box with a spring in it two
metal plates one on each end one goes up
and down the other one stays put you can
make them out of stuff from Home Depot
it's just not it's not hard I mean I'm
actually horrible at it but I know a lot
of guys that do it all the time
there's not much to it and you're not
it's not a piece that you're really
gonna be able to regulate because
there's nothing there's nothing
identifiable in it it's a spring and a
couple of pieces is a sheet metal it's
gonna be real hard to regulate you're
wasting a lot of energy a lot of
resources trying to track something down
that can be made and more importantly
it's doesn't do any good the idea behind
it is one of somebody that doesn't
understand how quickly you can change
your magazines so that one doesn't work
really done what about just banning the
ar-15 right just get rid of it by name
get rid of this thing because it's the
one that's used oh please don't do that
seriously the remember the reason this
is used is because it's the most popular
rifle in the United States
it's popular that's why the kids have
access to it because it's in their
parents home okay if you were to get rid
of this the next most popular rifles are
probably going to be a garand or an m14
and anybody who knows anything about
firearms just got a lump in their throat
thinking about a garand in a school
because a grand remember we talked about
in the first video this is low
intermediate power a grand is not it is
high-powered is a 30 on six and in
English what that means is there's no
hiding behind a locker there's no hiding
behind a door not really any hiding
behind a cinderblock and and if some kid
sends a 30.6 around screening down a
crowded hallway it's gonna kill two or
three people one boat so please don't
because the day a kid walks into a
school with a grin you're gonna be
praying for these things to come back
it's that's not it what about banning
semi-automatic rifles altogether
okay well first that's every rifle
designed pretty much in the last hundred
years that that's that's that's a big
that's a big step right there more
importantly is that it's gonna be pretty
ineffective you know I know people who
said well they did it in other countries
and what they did they did and it kind
of worked but not really and we'll get
to that other countries didn't have more
guns than people there's enough guns in
the United States to arm every man woman
and child in it of course we have a gun
problem but it's not because of the
design of the weapons that are out there
the user designs have been there for a
hundred years the gun problems
relatively new so what else the other
thing that people have to understand is
although these look high-tech they're
not there they're not they're not hard
to make and then that's the thing is
honestly for me I'm being honest this I
can make this in this shop maybe a day
it was never good at this I can't get
the timing around
just not a skill I have so there's that
there they're gonna be readily available
now the easiest way I can explain how
these bands are not going to work the
way you think in the u.s. is the m16
remember we talked about the ar-15s a
civilian version the m16 is the military
version you know that's the one that
does this instead of that if you want to
buy an m16 in the US it's not bad not
really it's effectively banned it's
still illegal to buy one but you got to
get special for permission from the ATF
and it's gonna run twenty to thirty
thousand dollars now semi automatic you
can pick up in Walmart for like six
hundred bucks the civilian version but
the full auto twenty to thirty thousand
dollars that's pretty expensive what if
you want to buy one illegally - two for
two two for no wait two to four thousand
about a tenth of the price guns are not
like drugs when you ban them they get
cheaper more accessible to the people
you don't want to have them it's the
exact opposite and that's something
we've really got to consider the idea
behind gun control is to limit death
right it's to get rid of that problem if
you ban them and this becomes a
punishable offense just possessing it
it's going to make people more violent
when they have one more importantly when
it comes to making them it is easier to
make this than it is this so if you're
gonna make it if you've got a ban them
then the guys that are gonna make them
to fill that black market which is what
prohibition does it creates a market for
it the guys that are gonna make them if
they're both going to go to
they're gonna go to prison for making
either one which one you think they're
gonna make logically I think it's a
horrible idea
now you're gonna point to the the bands
in other countries and say well it
worked yeah they didn't really yeah
they switched the type of murder you
look and all the statistics saying it
worked if you look and pay attention it
says gun deaths or gun murders look at
the murder rate in these countries
didn't really change anything continue
the trend that they were on and that's
that's pretty much all of them well stop
mass shootings at least it did it
stopped mass shootings because the guns
are mostly gone I mean they're still out
there illegally but they're mostly gone
you know kids aren't getting their hands
on why don't you pull up the figures for
arson a whole lot of people getting
killed in arsons now just changes the
method changes the the means doesn't
actually end the problem okay so I've
shot down a whole bunch of gun control
ideas what are some little work there's
got to be something that can be done
right especially about school shootings
I mean this is important we got to
figure something out there is and it's
actually really simple
I mean insanely simple and it got
brought up after the Parkland shooting
and incidentally the Parkland shooter
didn't use high-capacity magazines what
they're calling high-capacity
he used 10-round magazines but after
that shooting somebody said why don't we
raise the age from 18 to 21 yeah yeah
that's a great idea oh that's brilliant
actually I mean that's one of those
things so simple it's gonna work
here's the thing as it stands an 18 year
old kid can walk into a Walmart or a
sporting goods store and pick up
something like this for about 600 bucks
odds are he's not going to he's just
gonna get the one that's already in his
- cap okay but those that do buy them
and that does happen they can't they're
out of school at 21
they're gone and you say well they
turned it into a workplace shooting
maybe but hopefully in those three years
he's growing up a little bit now the big
objections to this there were three okay
two of them aren't aren't real
objections one is well you know so what
you're telling me is that a soldier can
list in the army
go overseas fighting a war come home and
not be able to buy a gun you got your
priorities mixed up maybe instead of
focusing on how to give an 18 year old
gun when he comes back we should focus
on stopping 18 and 19 year old kids from
getting shipped off to war I think that
would be a much better solution now
there's also the complaint that well
what if I want to go hunting I'm just
I'm just a law-abiding gun owner I just
want to go hunting see that might work
that that argument might work with with
with liberals that don't own guns don't
have never been around guns don't know
anything about hunting might work with
them but you're talking to another
redneck now you and I both know you've
been hunting since you were 12 your
parents bought that gun right they
bought you that I'd say probably a Ruger
10/22 put it in the cabinet that's what
you started with and they let you use it
and they kept track of it right same
thing same principle it can still happen
it's not gonna stop anybody from going
hunting that's stupid
the only good argument I heard against
it are those people who move out at 18
and need a gun to protect themselves
yeah
yeah that that's a risk it is I'm not
gonna lie I don't have an answer for
that one
I don't but that's what we're talking
about now here's the other thing another
one that needs to be addressed is people
with domestic violence histories and
right now the pro-gun guys are going
that's already the law it
it is a law if you're convicted of a
domestic violence crime even if it's a
misdemeanor you can't hold a gun anymore
because and the reason that was made
because domestic violence is a very good
indicator of future violence so it makes
sense now the problem of that is that
there's a huge loophole if the DA knocks
the charge back to simple battery or
anything other than a domestic violence
charge even if it was domestic violence
you don't get registered now the reason
that loophole exists is because law
enforcement has a lot of domestic
violence and if a cop is committed
convicted of a misdemeanor crime of
domestic violence he can't own gun
anymore so he can't be a cop so they
knock it back to some other misdemeanor
my question is why do we want those
types of people as cops and that that's
more of a reason to close that close
that loophole as far as I'm concerned so
those are the two that I think would
work as far as regulating the actual
design stuff like that it's a lot like
outlawing abortion it's a lot like
outlawing abortion doesn't matter what
your motives are the reality is that
it's going to happen it's gonna happen
there's nothing you're gonna be able to
do to change it when you when you make
something illegal like that you're just
creating a black market and what that
means is is that it's going to be the
people you don't want that have the most
access and it's always been like that
you know we've got to address some other
issues rather than just laws legislation
is not the answer here in any way shape
or form even those two that I recommend
it they're not gonna do much they aren't
they're gonna mitigate and they're gonna
help a little but they're not gonna
solve the problem
we're going to talk about truly solving
the problem in the next video so y'all
have a good night